Add publish-modern-javascript article (#4350)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/fast/publish-modern-javascript/index.md

---
layout: post

> title: Publish, ship and install modern JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Publish, ship, and install modern JavaScript
```

> title: Publish, ship, and install modern JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Publish, ship, and install modern JavaScript for faster page loads
```

Reviewer: Just a suggestion to add some value proposition to the title.

additional 5%. This means that 95% of global web traffic comes from browsers
that support the most widely used JavaScript language features from the past 10
years, including:

- Classes (ES2015)
- Arrow functions (ES2015)
- Generators (ES2015)
- Block scoping (ES2015)
- Destructuring (ES2015)
- Rest and spread parameters (ES2015)
- Object shorthand (ES2015)
- Async/await (ES2017)

Features in newer versions of the language specification generally have less
consistent support across modern browsers. For example, many ES2020 and ES2021
features are only supported in 70% of the browser market—still the majority of
browsers, but not enough that it's safe to rely on those features directly. This
means that although "modern" JavaScript is a moving target, ES2017 has the
widest range of browser compatibility
[while including most of the commonly used modern syntax features](https://dev.to/garylchew/bringing-modern-javascript-to-libraries-432c).
In other words, **ES2017 is the closest to modern syntax today**.

## Legacy JavaScript

Legacy JavaScript is code that specifically avoids using all the above language
features. Most developers write their source code using modern syntax, but

> compile everything to legacy syntax for increased browser support. Compiling
> to legacy syntax does increase browser support, however the effect is often
> smaller than we realize - in many cases increasing from around 95% to 98%.
> Unfortunately, this compilation incurs a significant cost:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compile everything to legacy syntax for increased browser support. Compiling
to legacy syntax does increase browser support, however the effect is often
smaller than we realize. In many cases the support increases from around 95% 
to 98% while incurring a significant cost:
```

  equivalent modern code. Tooling deficiencies and misconfiguration often
  widen this gap even further.

- Installed libraries account for as much as 90% of typical production
  JavaScript code. Library code incurs an even higher legacy JavaScript
  overhead due to polyfill and helper duplication that could be avoided
  by publishing modern code.

## Modern JavaScript on npm

Recently, Node.js has standardized an `"exports"` field to define
[entry points for a package](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#packages_package_entry_points):

```json
{
  "exports": "./index.js"
}
```

Modules referenced by the `"exports"` field imply a Node version of at least
12.8, which supports ES2019. This means that any module referenced using the
`"exports"` field can be _written in modern JavaScript_. Package consumers must
assume modules with an `"exports"` field contain modern code and transpile if
necessary.

### Modern-only

If you want to publish a package with modern code and leave it up to the
consumer to handle transpiling it when they use it as a dependency—use only the
`"exports"` field.

```json
{
  "name": "foo",
  "exports": "./modern.js
}
```

> This approach is _not recommended_. In a perfect world, every developer
> would have already configured their build system to transpile all dependencies
> (`node_modules`) to their required syntax. However, this is not currently the
> case, and publishing your package using only modern syntax would prevent its
> usage in applications that would be accessed through legacy browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside 'caution' %}
This approach is _not recommended_. In a perfect world, every developer
would have already configured their build system to transpile all dependencies
(`node_modules`) to their required syntax. However, this is not currently the
case, and publishing your package using only modern syntax would prevent its
usage in applications that would be accessed through legacy browsers.
{% endAside %}
```

### Modern with legacy fallback

Use the `"exports"` field along with `"main"` in order to publish your package
using modern code but also include an ES5 + CommonJS fallback for legacy
browsers.

```json
{
  "name": "foo",
  "exports": "./modern.js",
  "main": "./legacy.cjs"
}
```

### Modern with legacy fallback and ESM bundler optimizations

In addition to defining a fallback CommonJS entrypoint, the `"module"` field can
be used to point to a similar legacy fallback bundle, but one that uses
JavaScript module syntax (`import` and `export`).

```json
{
  "name": "foo",
  "exports": "./modern.js",
  "main": "./legacy.cjs",
  "module": "./module.js"
}
```

Many bundlers, such as webpack and Rollup, rely on this field to take advantage
of module features and enable
[tree shaking](/commonjs-larger-bundles/#how-does-commonjs-affect-your-final-bundle-size).
This is still a legacy bundle that does not contain any modern code aside from
`import`/`export` syntax, so use this approach to ship modern code with a
legacy fallback that is still optimized for bundling.

> ## Modern JavaScript in Applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Modern JavaScript in applications
```

Third-party dependencies make up the vast majority of typical production
JavaScript code in web applications. While npm dependencies have historically
been published as legacy ES5 syntax, this is no longer a safe assumption and
risks dependency updates breaking browser support in your application.

With an increasing number of npm packages moving to modern JavaScript, it's
important to ensure that the build tooling is set up to handle them. There's a
good chance some of the npm packages you depend on are already using modern
language features. There are a number of options available to use modern code
from npm without breaking your application in older browsers, but the general
idea is to have the build system transpile dependencies to the same syntax
target as your source code.

## webpack

> As of webpack 5, it is now possible to configure what syntax webpack will use
> when generating code for bundles and modules. This doesn't transpile your code or dependencies, it only affects the "glue" code generated by webpack. The browser support target can be specified by adding a
> [browserslist configuration](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist#readme)
> to your project, or directly in your webpack configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of webpack 5, it is now possible to configure what syntax webpack will use
when generating code for bundles and modules. This doesn't transpile your 
code or dependencies, it only affects the "glue" code generated by webpack. 
To specify the browser support target, add a [browserslist configuration](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist#readme)
to your project, or do it directly in your webpack configuration:
```

```js
module.exports = {
  target: ['web', 'es2017'],
};
```

It is also possible to configure webpack to generate optimized bundles that
omit unnecessary wrapper functions when targeting a modern ES Modules

> environment. This also configures Webpack to load code-splitted bundles using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment. This also configures webpack to load code-split bundles using
```

`<script type="module">`.

```js
module.exports = {
  target: ['web', 'es2017'],
  output: {
    module: true,
  },
  experiments: {
    outputModule: true,
  },
};
```

There are a number of webpack plugins available that make it possible to

> compile and ship modern JavaScript while still supporting legacy browsers.

Reviewer: Could you add a couple of examples with links here?

> There are a number of webpack plugins available that make it possible to
> compile and ship modern JavaScript while still supporting legacy browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a number of webpack plugins available that make it possible to
compile and ship modern JavaScript while still supporting legacy browsers,
such as: Optimize Plugin, BabelEsmPlugin, and webpack-plugin-modern-npm.
```

Author: I switched the `webpack-plugin-modern-npm` section to be a manual configuration recommendation instead of a plugin to install, so I've tweaked your suggestion here to be:

```md
There are a number of webpack plugins available that make it possible to
compile and ship modern JavaScript while still supporting legacy browsers,
such as Optimize Plugin and BabelEsmPlugin.
```

Hope that's okay!

### Optimize Plugin

> [Optimize Plugin](https://github.com/developit/optimize-plugin) is a webpack

Reviewer: i'm getting a 404 for this, is it a private repo?

Author: yes - a few of the links in this article are launching on the 10th when it goes live.

to ES2017 while allowing you to handle transpiling your first-party code
separately. This doesn't generate modern and legacy bundles for a
module/nomodule setup, but it does make it possible to install and use npm
packages that contain modern JavaScript without breaking older browsers.

```js
const ModernNpmPlugin = require('webpack-plugin-modern-npm');

module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    // auto-transpile modern stuff found in node_modules
    new ModernNpmPlugin(),
  ],
};
```

When using this approach, you'll need to ensure modern syntax is supported by
your minifier. Both [Terser](https://github.com/terser/terser#minify-options)
and [uglify-es](https://github.com/mishoo/UglifyJS/tree/harmony#minify-options)
have an option to specify `{ecma: 2017}` in order to preserve and in some cases
generate ES2017 syntax during compression and formatting.

## Rollup

Rollup has built-in support for generating multiple sets of bundles as part of
a single build, and generates modern code by default. As a result, Rollup can
be configured to generate modern and legacy bundles with the official plugins
you're likely already using.

### @rollup/plugin-babel

> If you use Rollup, the
> [`getBabelOutputPlugin()` method](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/babel#running-babel-on-the-generated-code)
> provided by Rollup's
> [official Babel plugin](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/babel)
> transforms the code in generated bundles rather than individual source modules.
> Rollup has built-in support for generating multiple sets of bundles as part of
> a single build, each with their own plugins. You can use this to produce
> different bundles for modern and legacy by passing each through a different
> Babel output plugin configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Rollup, the
[`getBabelOutputPlugin()` method](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/babel#running-babel-on-the-generated-code)
(provided by Rollup's
[official Babel plugin](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/babel))
transforms the code in generated bundles rather than individual source modules.
Rollup has built-in support for generating multiple sets of bundles as part of
a single build, each with their own plugins. You can use this to produce
different bundles for modern and legacy by passing each through a different
Babel output plugin configuration:
```

  output: [
    // modern bundles:
    {
      format: 'es',
      plugins: [
        getBabelOutputPlugin({
          presets: [
            [
              '@babel/preset-env',
              {
                targets: {esmodules: true},
                bugfixes: true,
                loose: true,
              },
            ],
          ],
        }),
      ],
    },
    // legacy (ES5) bundles:
    {
      format: 'amd',
      entryFileNames: '[name].legacy.js',
      chunkFileNames: '[name]-[hash].legacy.js',
      plugins: [
        getBabelOutputPlugin({
          presets: ['@babel/preset-env'],
        }),
      ],
    },
  ],
};
```

## Conclusion

[Estimator.dev](http://estimator.dev/) was built to provide an easy way to
assess how much of an impact it can make to switch to modern-capable JavaScript
code for the majority of your users. Today, ES2017 is the closest to modern
syntax and tools such as npm, Babel, webpack, and Rollup have made it possible
to configure your build system and write your packages using this syntax. This
post covers several approaches, and you should use the easiest option that works
for your use case.

{% YouTube 'cLxNdLK--yI' %}

> _With reviews from [Milica Mihajlija](/authors/mihajlija/)._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  - codelab-serve-modern-code
tags:
  - performance
---

Over 90% of browsers are capable of running modern JavaScript, but the
prevalence of legacy JavaScript remains one of the biggest contributors to
performance problems on the web today. [EStimator.dev](http://estimator.dev/) is
a simple web-based tool that calculates the size and performance improvement a
site could achieve by delivering modern JavaScript syntax.

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <img src="./estimator-screenshot.png"

>        alt="Screenshot of EStimator.dev"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       alt="EStimator.dev analysis showing a website could be 9% faster with modern JavaScript."
```

[Preact CLI](https://preactjs.com/cli/).

```js
const BabelEsmPlugin = require('babel-esm-plugin');

module.exports = {
  //...
  module: {
    rules: [
      // your existing babel-loader configuration:
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        use: {
          loader: 'babel-loader',
          options: {
            presets: [
              [
                '@babel/preset-env',
                {
                  targets: {
                    browsers: ['last 2 versions', 'not dead'],
                  },
                },
              ],
            ],
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
  plugins: [new BabelEsmPlugin()],
};
```

`BabelEsmPlugin` supports a wide array of webpack configurations, because it
runs two largely separate builds of your application. Compiling twice can take a
little bit of extra time for large applications, however this technique allows
`BabelEsmPlugin` to integrate seamlessly into existing webpack configurations
and makes it one of the most convenient options available.

### Configure babel-loader to transpile node_modules

If you are using `babel-loader` without one of the previous two plugins,

> there's an important step required in order to consume Modern JavaScript npm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there's an important step required in order to consume modern JavaScript npm
```
